update posting an event to MMS (#105)
metno/data-management-handbook: source/register_context.adoc

As a producer of operational data, you should do the following:

Install the link:https://github.com/metno/go-mms[go-mms app],
and run the usage example for mms NATS Jetstream locally.

Make sure you have a valid API-key to publish an event to MMS. You can get the key by contacting the mailto:dm-service-organisation@met.no[Service Organisation] for data management.

> Push the Product Event to MMS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Push the Product Event to MMS:

[source]
----
  ./mms post --api-key=validKey --production-hub=https://mms-api.s-enda.k8s.met.no --queue-name=queueName --jobname=test --product=test --product-location=test-location --production-hub=https://mms-api.s-enda-*.k8s.met.no --MMD="$(cat /path/to/MMdfile.xml)" --counter=1 --ntotal=1 --reftime=2023-11-02T12:02:46Z --event-interval=3
----
```

>   Include the arguments required to make the link:https://github.com/metno/MMS/blob/main/messages.md[Product Event]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The arguments required  for the Product Event are explained link:https://github.com/metno/MMS/blob/main/messages.md[here].
```

>   in the post command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Alternatively, use the staging environment for testing; https://mms-api.s-enda-staging.k8s.met.no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, use the staging environment for testing; `https://mms-api.s-enda-staging.k8s.met.no`.
```

> Note that `ntotal` is the `TotalCount` and `event-interval` is used to make 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that `ntotal` is the `TotalCount`, and that `event-interval` is used to make 
```

> `NextEventAt` in link:https://github.com/metno/MMS/blob/main/messages.md[Product Event].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`NextEventAt` (see link:https://github.com/metno/MMS/blob/main/messages.md[Product Event]).
```

 The arguments required  for the Product Event are explained link:https://github.com/metno/MMS/blob/main/messages.md[here].

Alternatively, use the staging environment for testing; `https://mms-api.s-enda-staging.k8s.met.no`.
Note that `ntotal` is the `TotalCount`, and that `event-interval` is used to make 

> `NextEventAt` in link:https://github.com/metno/MMS/blob/main/messages.md[Product Event].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`NextEventAt` (see link:https://github.com/metno/MMS/blob/main/messages.md[Product Event]).
```

> [source]
> ----
>   ./mms post --api-key=validKey --production-hub=https://mms-api.s-enda.k8s.met.no --queue-name=queueName --jobname=test --product=test --product-location=test-location --production-hub=https://mms-api.s-enda-*.k8s.met.no --MMD="$(cat /path/to/MMdfile.xml)" --counter=1 --ntotal=1 --reftime=2023-11-02T12:02:46Z --event-interval=3
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Install the link:https://github.com/metno/go-mms[go-mms app],
and run the usage example for mms NATS Jetstream locally.

Make sure you have a valid API-key to publish an event to MMS. You can get the key by contacting the mailto:dm-service-organisation@met.no[Service Organisation] for data management.

Push the Product Event to MMS:

[source]
----
  ./mms post --api-key=validKey --production-hub=https://mms-api.s-enda.k8s.met.no --queue-name=queueName --jobname=test --product=test --product-location=test-location --production-hub=https://mms-api.s-enda-*.k8s.met.no --MMD="$(cat /path/to/MMdfile.xml)" --counter=1 --ntotal=1 --reftime=2023-11-02T12:02:46Z --event-interval=3
----

 The arguments required  for the Product Event are explained link:https://github.com/metno/MMS/blob/main/messages.md[here].

Alternatively, use the staging environment for testing; `https://mms-api.s-enda-staging.k8s.met.no`.
Note that `ntotal` is the `TotalCount`, and that `event-interval` is used to make 
`NextEventAt` in link:https://github.com/metno/MMS/blob/main/messages.md[Product Event].
  
The actual command for posting an event including the `Product Event` is
  

> 
> Make sure you have a valid cred file to subscribe to a queue .
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you also have a valid credential file to **subscribe** to a queue .

```

As a producer of operational data, you should do the following:

Install the link:https://github.com/metno/go-mms[go-mms app],
and run the usage example for mms NATS Jetstream locally.

> Make sure you have one valid api-key to publish an event to MMS. 

Reviewer: How can the user get this?

Author: We have to decide on how we should provide the cred file to the user or should they generate the cred files.
Because we have to shell into the nats-box container and have to generate it there.

Reviewer: Ok - so it means someone needs to help the user, right? Is that you or Espen? We have a "service organisation" in the data management organisation system: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tmgYaAwsJ3sl0UpkdtKsHGc48fgD6tvplUGvMaerSDc/edit#heading=h.3mzq4wv - I can see if we have a group email for that, then we could add you and Espen?

Author: Yes . I think you can add both of us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you have a valid API-key to publish an event to MMS. You can get the key by contacting the mailto:dm-service-organisation@met.no[Service Organisation] for data management.
```

Push the Product Event to MMS:
  Include the arguments required to make the link:https://github.com/metno/MMS/blob/main/messages.md[Product Event]
  in the post command.

[source]
----
  --jobname=test --product=test --product-location=test-location --production-hub=https://mms-api.s-enda-*.k8s.met.no --MMD="$(cat /path/to/MMdfile.xml)" --counter=1 --ntotal=1 --reftime=2023-11-02T12:02:46Z --event-interval=3
----   

> 

Reviewer: Or let's just use the production environment, since dev and staging is for ourselves..

> 

Reviewer: I'll commit the current suggestion. Sorry for the confusion - it's hard to agree with myself... Anyway, we can try like this, and see how it works

> `ntotal` is the `TotalCount` and `event-interval` is used to make 

Reviewer: Can you explain TotalCount, event-interval and NextEventAt? What do they mean?

Reviewer: yes, that would be great!

`NextEventAt` in Product Event. 
  
The actual command for posting an event including the `Product Event` is
  
[source]
----

>   ./mms post --api-key=validKey --production-hub=https://mms-api.s-enda-*.k8s.met.no --queue-name=queueName --jobname=test --product=test --product-location=test-location --production-hub=https://mms-api.s-enda-*.k8s.met.no --MMD="$(cat /path/to/MMdfile.xml)" --counter=1 --ntotal=1 --reftime=2023-11-02T12:02:46Z --event-interval=3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ./mms post --api-key=validKey --production-hub=https://mms-api.s-enda.k8s.met.no --queue-name=queueName --jobname=test --product=test --product-location=test-location --production-hub=https://mms-api.s-enda-*.k8s.met.no --MMD="$(cat /path/to/MMdfile.xml)" --counter=1 --ntotal=1 --reftime=2023-11-02T12:02:46Z --event-interval=3
```

----

> Make sure you have one valid cred file to subscribe to a queue .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you have a valid cred file to subscribe to a queue .
```

Check that messages are coming through the event queue: 

[source]
----

>  ./mms subscribe --production-hub=nats://nats.s-enda-*.k8s.met.no:32001 --queue-name=queueName --cred-file=path/to/credFile.creds --queue-name=queueName --nats-local=false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 ./mms subscribe --production-hub=nats://nats.s-enda.k8s.met.no:32001 --queue-name=queueName --cred-file=path/to/credFile.creds --queue-name=queueName --nats-local=false
```

----

Optionally, check that the MMD file has been added to the metadata catalog (see <<test-mmd-ingested>>)

As noted, the MMD payload is optional. This is because some data is not always
suited for addition in the official metadata catalog, e.g., since it is
short-living, not "owned" by MET Norway, or there has not been time to define
and create NetCDF-CF and MMD files.

> `MMD-Agent` is subscribing to all these messages coming through the event queue. If the messsage contains a MMD payload, it will post the MMD file to `DMCI`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `MMD-Agent` is subscribed to all the messages coming through the event queue. If the messsage contains a MMD payload, it will post the MMD file to the DMCI API, which stores the metadata in the catalog.
```

As a producer of operational data, you should do the following:

Install the link:https://github.com/metno/go-mms[go-mms app],
and run the usage example for mms NATS Jetstream locally.

Make sure you have a valid API-key to publish an event to MMS. You can get the key by contacting the mailto:dm-service-organisation@met.no[Service Organisation] for data management.

Push the Product Event to MMS:
  Include the arguments required to make the link:https://github.com/metno/MMS/blob/main/messages.md[Product Event]
  in the post command.

> [source]
> ----
>   --jobname=test --product=test --product-location=test-location --production-hub=https://mms-api.s-enda.k8s.met.no --MMD="$(cat /path/to/MMdfile.xml)" --counter=1 --ntotal=1 --reftime=2023-11-02T12:02:46Z --event-interval=3
> ----   
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Alternatively, use the staging environment for testing; https://mms-api.s-enda-staging.k8s.met.no

> `ntotal` is the `TotalCount` and `event-interval` is used to make 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that `ntotal` is the `TotalCount` and `event-interval` is used to make 
```

> `NextEventAt` in Product Event. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`NextEventAt` in link:https://github.com/metno/MMS/blob/main/messages.md[Product Event].
```

  
The actual command for posting an event including the `Product Event` is
  
[source]
----
  ./mms post --api-key=validKey --production-hub=https://mms-api.s-enda.k8s.met.no --queue-name=queueName --jobname=test --product=test --product-location=test-location --production-hub=https://mms-api.s-enda-*.k8s.met.no --MMD="$(cat /path/to/MMdfile.xml)" --counter=1 --ntotal=1 --reftime=2023-11-02T12:02:46Z --event-interval=3
----

Make sure you have a valid cred file to subscribe to a queue .

Check that messages are coming through the event queue: 

[source]
----
 ./mms subscribe --production-hub=nats://nats.s-enda.k8s.met.no:32001 --queue-name=queueName --cred-file=path/to/credFile.creds --queue-name=queueName --nats-local=false
----

Optionally, check that the MMD file has been added to the metadata catalog (see <<test-mmd-ingested>>)

As noted, the MMD payload is optional. This is because some data is not always
suited for addition in the official metadata catalog, e.g., since it is
short-living, not "owned" by MET Norway, or there has not been time to define
and create NetCDF-CF and MMD files.

> The `MMD-Agent` is subscribed to all the messages coming through the event queue. If the messsage contains a MMD payload, it will post the MMD file to the DMCI API, which stores the metadata in the catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `MMD-Agent` subscribes to all the messages coming through the event queue. If the message contains an MMD payload, it will post the MMD file to the DMCI API, which stores the metadata in the catalog.
```

* `https://data-staging.met.no/dataset/UUID` (for the staging environment)
* `https://data-test.met.no/dataset/UUID` (for the development environment)

> where UUID should be replaced by your dataset uuid (not `no.met:UUID`). Others ways to check are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where UUID should be replaced by your dataset uuid (not `no.met:UUID` but only the `UUID`). Others ways to check are:
```

where UUID should be replaced by your dataset uuid (not `no.met:UUID` but only the `UUID`). Others ways to check are:

* Find the datasets containing `arctic` keyword in the title and on a given date: `https://csw.s-enda*.k8s.met.no/?mode=opensearch&service=CSW&version=2.0.2&request=GetRecords&elementsetname=full&typenames=csw:Record&resulttype=results&q=arctic&time=2023-03-25`

> * Find the datasets having a given `metadata_identifier = no.met:4a34334b-b384-48b3-b846-76807bc006`: `https://csw.s-enda*.k8s.met.no/csw?service=CSW&version=2.0.2&request=GetRecordById&oxml&outputSchema=http://www.isotc211.org/2005/gmd&elementsetname=full&id=no.met:4a34334b-b384-48b3-b846-76807bc006`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Find the dataset having a given `metadata_identifier = no.met:4a34334b-b384-48b3-b846-76807bc006`: `https://csw.s-enda*.k8s.met.no/csw?service=CSW&version=2.0.2&request=GetRecordById&oxml&outputSchema=http://www.isotc211.org/2005/gmd&elementsetname=full&id=no.met:4a34334b-b384-48b3-b846-76807bc006`
```
